App Packaging.md, before:

# Azure Virtual Desktop Application Packaging
Below is a collection of Azure Virtual Desktop links to help with App Packaging.

## *MSIX App Attach*
- [Azure Virtual Desktop MSIX app attach overview - Azure | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/what-is-app-attach)
- [Set up MSIX app attach with the Azure portal](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/app-attach-azure-portal)
- [Learn how to configure MSIX app attach - Christiaan Brinkhoff](https://christiaanbrinkhoff.com/2020/12/02/the-future-of-application-virtualization-learn-here-how-to-create-and-configure-msix-app-attach-packages-containers-on-windows-10-enterprise-multi-and-single-session-build-2004-and-higher-for-win/)
- [Create and Manage MSIX App Attach Images and Host Pool Assignments – Nerdio Manager for Enterprise](https://nmw.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/4731670971415-Create-and-Manage-MSIX-App-Attach-Images-and-Host-Pool-Assignments)
- [Publish built-in apps in Azure Virtual Desktop](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/publish-apps)
- [Host Custom Apps apps in Azure Virtual Desktop](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/remote-app-streaming/custom-apps)
- [New App attach features for Azure Virtual Desktop now generally available](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-virtual-desktop-blog/app-attach-for-azure-virtual-desktop-now-generally-available/ba-p/4167578)


## *App-V*
- [Feature-based comparison of Application Virtualization and MSIX - MSIX | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/msix/comparisonofappvwithmsix)
- [Creating and managing App-V virtualized applications (Windows 10/11) - Microsoft Desktop Optimization Pack | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-desktop-optimization-pack/app-v/appv-creating-and-managing-virtualized-applications)
- [New extended support dates for MDOP tools - Microsoft Community Hub](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/windows-it-pro-blog/new-extended-support-dates-for-mdop-tools/ba-p/837312)
- [Why Has App-V’s End of Life Been Extended to 2026 | Access IT Automation](https://accessitautomation.com/why-has-app-vs-end-of-life-been-extended-to-2026-and-what-should-you-do-to-prepare/)

![App-V EOS](/Diagrams/App-V_EOS.jpg)

\
[*Back to Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD) Quick Reference Links Guide Contents*](https://github.com/chrismihm-ms/AVDQuickLinks/blob/main/README.md#azure-virtual-desktop-avd-quick-reference-links)

Commit message:

Added reference to Azure Academy MSIX video

App Packaging.md, after:

# Azure Virtual Desktop Application Packaging
Below is a collection of Azure Virtual Desktop links to help with App Packaging.

## *MSIX App Attach*
- [Azure Virtual Desktop MSIX app attach overview - Azure | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/what-is-app-attach)
- [Set up MSIX app attach with the Azure portal](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/app-attach-azure-portal)
- [Learn how to configure MSIX app attach - Christiaan Brinkhoff](https://christiaanbrinkhoff.com/2020/12/02/the-future-of-application-virtualization-learn-here-how-to-create-and-configure-msix-app-attach-packages-containers-on-windows-10-enterprise-multi-and-single-session-build-2004-and-higher-for-win/)
- [Create and Manage MSIX App Attach Images and Host Pool Assignments – Nerdio Manager for Enterprise](https://nmw.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/4731670971415-Create-and-Manage-MSIX-App-Attach-Images-and-Host-Pool-Assignments)
- [Publish built-in apps in Azure Virtual Desktop](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/publish-apps)
- [Host Custom Apps apps in Azure Virtual Desktop](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-desktop/remote-app-streaming/custom-apps)
- [New App attach features for Azure Virtual Desktop now generally available](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/azure-virtual-desktop-blog/app-attach-for-azure-virtual-desktop-now-generally-available/ba-p/4167578)

### Videos
- [Azure Academy - 3 Ways To GET MSIX Files From Vendors](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bqW0ZbcLOaQ)


## *App-V*
- [Feature-based comparison of Application Virtualization and MSIX - MSIX | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/msix/comparisonofappvwithmsix)
- [Creating and managing App-V virtualized applications (Windows 10/11) - Microsoft Desktop Optimization Pack | Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-desktop-optimization-pack/app-v/appv-creating-and-managing-virtualized-applications)
- [New extended support dates for MDOP tools - Microsoft Community Hub](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/windows-it-pro-blog/new-extended-support-dates-for-mdop-tools/ba-p/837312)
- [Why Has App-V’s End of Life Been Extended to 2026 | Access IT Automation](https://accessitautomation.com/why-has-app-vs-end-of-life-been-extended-to-2026-and-what-should-you-do-to-prepare/)

![App-V EOS](/Diagrams/App-V_EOS.jpg)

\
[*Back to Azure Virtual Desktop (AVD) Quick Reference Links Guide Contents*](https://github.com/chrismihm-ms/AVDQuickLinks/blob/main/README.md#azure-virtual-desktop-avd-quick-reference-links)
